RON_universal_setup = yes

### LEADERS ###

recruit_character = USA_william_mckinley
recruit_character = USA_theodore_roosevelt
recruit_character = USA_William_Jennings_Bryan
recruit_character = USA_alton_b_parker
recruit_character = USA_william_h_taft
recruit_character = USA_woodrow_wilson
recruit_character = USA_eugene_debs
recruit_character = USA_charles_e_hughes
recruit_character = USA_james_m_cox
recruit_character = USA_warren_g_harding
recruit_character = USA_calvin_coolidge
recruit_character = USA_john_w_davis
recruit_character = USA_robert_m_la_follette
recruit_character = USA_herbert_hoover
recruit_character = USA_alfred_m_smith
recruit_character = USA_franklin_delano_roosevelt
recruit_character = USA_william_dudley_pelley
recruit_character = USA_earl_browder
recruit_character = USA_the_grand_council
recruit_character = USA_smedley_butler
recruit_character = USA_wendell_willkie
recruit_character = USA_thomas_e_dewey
recruit_character = USA_harry_s_truman
recruit_character = USA_george_lincoln_rockwell
recruit_character = USA_gus_hall_50s
recruit_character = USA_gus_hall_70s
recruit_character = USA_matthias_koehl
recruit_character = USA_paul_washington
recruit_character = USA_douglas_macarthur
recruit_character = USA_strom_thurmond
recruit_character = USA_dwight_d_eisenhower
recruit_character = USA_adlai_stevenson
recruit_character = USA_john_f_kennedy
recruit_character = USA_lyndon_b_johnson
recruit_character = USA_richard_nixon
recruit_character = USA_barry_goldwater
recruit_character = USA_george_wallace
recruit_character = USA_george_mcgovern
recruit_character = USA_jimmy_carter
recruit_character = USA_gerald_ford
recruit_character = USA_ronald_reagan
recruit_character = USA_john_b_anderson
recruit_character = USA_walter_mondale
recruit_character = USA_george_h_w_bush
recruit_character = USA_michael_dukakis
recruit_character = USA_bill_clinton
recruit_character = USA_bob_dole
recruit_character = USA_jeff_schoep
recruit_character = USA_patrich_buchanan
recruit_character = USA_sam_webb
recruit_character = USA_ross_perot
recruit_character = USA_george_w_bush
recruit_character = USA_al_gore
recruit_character = USA_john_kerry
recruit_character = USA_barack_obama
recruit_character = USA_john_mccain
recruit_character = USA_mitt_romney
recruit_character = USA_richard_spencer
recruit_character = USA_rocky_de_la_fuente
recruit_character = USA_john_bachtell
recruit_character = USA_donald_trump
recruit_character = USA_hillary_clinton
recruit_character = USA_joe_biden

		### MODERN DAY RECRUIT ###

### FIELD MARSHALS ###
recruit_character = USA_colin_powel
recruit_character = USA_james_n_mattis
recruit_character = USA_john_g_coburn
recruit_character = USA_eric_k_shinseki
recruit_character = USA_dennis_reimer
recruit_character = USA_joseph_dunford
recruit_character = USA_paul_selva
recruit_character = USA_curtis_scaparrotti
recruit_character = USA_raymond_thomas_iii
recruit_character = USA_john_hyten
recruit_character = USA_darren_mcdew
recruit_character = USA_joseph_lengyel
recruit_character = USA_john_nicholson_jr
recruit_character = USA_vincent_brooks
recruit_character = USA_mark_milley
recruit_character = USA_daniel_allyn
recruit_character = USA_gustave_perna
recruit_character = USA_robert_brown
recruit_character = USA_david_perkins
recruit_character = USA_robert_neller
recruit_character = USA_glenn_walters
recruit_character = USA_james_mcconville
recruit_character = USA_david_goldfein
recruit_character = USA_stephen_wilson
recruit_character = USA_james_holmes
recruit_character = USA_robin_rand
recruit_character = USA_ellen_pawlikowski
recruit_character = USA_john_raymond
recruit_character = USA_carlton_everhart_ii
recruit_character = USA_terrence_o_shaughnessy
recruit_character = USA_tod_wolters
	
### CORPS COMMANDERS ###

### WW1 CORPS COMMANDERS ###

recruit_character = USA_fred_walker

### MD CORPS COMMANDERS ###

recruit_character = USA_john_m_keane
recruit_character = USA_thomas_a_schwartz
recruit_character = USA_lori_j_robinson
recruit_character = USA_erik_kurilla
recruit_character = USA_robert_b_abrams
recruit_character = USA_joseph_l_votel
recruit_character = USA_john_n_abrams
recruit_character = USA_thomas_d_waldhauser
recruit_character = USA_andrew_p_poppas
recruit_character = USA_john_w_hendrix
recruit_character = USA_kurt_w_tidd
recruit_character = USA_joseph_m_martin
recruit_character = USA_christopher_g_cavoli
recruit_character = USA_joseph_harrington
recruit_character = USA_michael_garrett
recruit_character = USA_ben_hodges
recruit_character = USA_jeffrey_buchanan
recruit_character = USA_clarence_k_k_chinn
recruit_character = USA_susan_davidson
recruit_character = USA_paul_nakasone
recruit_character = USA_james_dickinson
recruit_character = USA_kenneth_tovo
recruit_character = USA_thomas_vandal
recruit_character = USA_todd_semonite
recruit_character = USA_christopher_ballard
recruit_character = USA_bradley_becker
recruit_character = USA_jeffrey_snow
recruit_character = USA_william_rapp
recruit_character = USA_robert_caslen
recruit_character = USA_blake_ortner
recruit_character = USA_burke_whitman
recruit_character = USA_brian_brakke
recruit_character = USA_carl_epting_mundy
recruit_character = USA_charles_chiarotti
recruit_character = USA_charles_luckey
recruit_character = USA_craig_timberlake
recruit_character = USA_daniel_o_donohue
recruit_character = USA_david_ottignon
recruit_character = USA_gary_volesky
recruit_character = USA_harry_e_miller_jr
recruit_character = USA_helen_g_pratt
recruit_character = USA_james_e_kraft
recruit_character = USA_james_b_linder
recruit_character = USA_william_f_kernan

### NAVY LEADERS ###

### WW1 NAVY ###

recruit_character = USA_wiliam_sims
recruit_character = USA_william_benson
recruit_character = USA_albert_winterhalter
recruit_character = USA_frank_fletcher
recruit_character = USA_walter_cowles

### CW NAVY ###

### MD NAVY ###
recruit_character = USA_jeffrey_bennett
recruit_character = USA_james_kilby
recruit_character = USA_fernandez_ponds
recruit_character = USA_dee_mewbourne
recruit_character = USA_christopher_grady
recruit_character = USA_craig_blakely
recruit_character = USA_brian_davies
recruit_character = USA_bruce_lindsey
recruit_character = USA_harry_harris_jr
recruit_character = USA_michael_rogers
recruit_character = USA_john_richardson
recruit_character = USA_william_moran
recruit_character = USA_james_caldwell_jr
recruit_character = USA_philip_davidson
recruit_character = USA_michelle_howard
recruit_character = USA_scott_swift
recruit_character = USA_paul_zukunft
recruit_character = USA_charles_michel
recruit_character = USA_james_o_ellis
recruit_character = USA_dennis_c_blair
recruit_character = USA_vernon_e_clark
recruit_character = USA_thomas_b_fargo
recruit_character = USA_charles_s_abbot

capital = 361
oob = "USA_1900"

set_convoys = 1000

set_politics = {
	ruling_party = democratic
	last_election = "1896.11.3"
	election_frequency = 48
	elections_allowed = yes
}

set_popularities = {
	democratic = 100
}

add_country_leader_role = {
	character = "USA_william_mckinley"
	country_leader = {
		ideology=conservatism
		expire="1901.9.14.1"
	}
	promote_leader = yes
}

### WW1 Start Date

1910.1.1 = {
	if = {
		limit = {
			has_start_date > 1909.01.01
			has_start_date < 1919.01.01
		}
		country_lock_all_division_template = yes
		add_ideas = ww1_neutrality
	}
	if = {
		limit = {
			has_start_date > 1909.1.1
			has_start_date < 1911.1.1
		}
		country_event = { id = ww1_usa.29 days = 1038 }
		country_event = { id = ww1_usa.31 days = 1451 }
	}
	add_ideas = {
		foreign_neutral
	}
	oob = "USA_1910"
	set_politics = {
		ruling_party = democratic
		last_election = "1908.11.3"
		election_frequency = 48
		elections_allowed = yes
	}

	set_popularities = {
		democratic = 100
	}

	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_william_h_taft"
		country_leader = {
			desc="POLITICS_WILLIAM_TAFT_DESC"
			ideology=conservatism
			expire="1930.3.8.1"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
}

1914.1.1 = {

	oob = "USA_1914"

	set_politics = {
		ruling_party = democratic
		last_election = "1912.11.3"
		election_frequency = 48
		elections_allowed = yes
	}

}

1919.1.1 = {
	oob = "USA_1919"

	set_politics = {
		ruling_party = democratic
		last_election = "1916.11.7"
		election_frequency = 48
		elections_allowed = yes
	}
	
}

1933.1.1 = {

	oob = "USA_1933"
	set_naval_oob = "USA_1933_naval_legacy"
	set_politics = {
		ruling_party = democratic
		last_election = "1932.11.8"
		election_frequency = 48
		elections_allowed = yes
	}
	set_popularities = {
		democratic = 99
		communism = 1
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_franklin_delano_roosevelt"
		country_leader = {
			desc="POLITICS_FRANKLIN_DELANO_ROOSEVELT_DESC"
			ideology=liberalism
			traits={ champion_of_the_common_man dislikes_germany }
			expire="1945.4.12"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_harry_s_truman"
		country_leader = {
			desc = "POLITICS_HARRY_TRUMAN_DESC"
			ideology=liberalism
			expire="1972.12.26"
		}
		promote_leader = no
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_william_dudley_pelley"
		country_leader = {
			desc="POLITICS_WILLIAM_DUDLEY_PELLEY_DESC"
			ideology=fascism_ideology
			expire="1965.6.30"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_earl_browder"
		country_leader = {
			desc="POLITICS_EARL_BROWDER_DESC"
			ideology=marxism
			expire="1973.7.27"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_the_grand_council"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=despotism
			expire="2060.1.1"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_smedley_butler"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=militarism
			traits={ dictator }
			expire="1940.6.21"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
}

1936.1.1 = {

	if = {
		limit = {
			has_dlc = "Man the Guns"
			has_start_date > 1935.01.01
			has_start_date < 1948.01.01
		}
		add_ideas = MTG_naval_treaty_adherent
	}
	oob = "USA_1936"
	set_naval_oob = "USA_1936_naval_legacy"
	USA = {
		country_event = {
			id = usa.50
			days = 2
		}
		country_event = {
			id = usa.51
			days = 2
		}
	}

	set_politics = {
		ruling_party = democratic
		last_election = "1932.11.8"
		election_frequency = 48
		elections_allowed = yes
	}
	set_popularities = {
		democratic = 99
		communism = 1
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_franklin_delano_roosevelt"
		country_leader = {
			desc="POLITICS_FRANKLIN_DELANO_ROOSEVELT_DESC"
			ideology=liberalism
			traits={ champion_of_the_common_man dislikes_germany }
			expire="1945.4.12"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_harry_s_truman"
		country_leader = {
			desc = "POLITICS_HARRY_TRUMAN_DESC"
			ideology=liberalism
			expire="1972.12.26"
		}
		promote_leader = no
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_william_dudley_pelley"
		country_leader = {
			desc="POLITICS_WILLIAM_DUDLEY_PELLEY_DESC"
			ideology=fascism_ideology
			expire="1965.6.30"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_earl_browder"
		country_leader = {
			desc="POLITICS_EARL_BROWDER_DESC"
			ideology=marxism
			expire="1973.7.27"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_the_grand_council"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=despotism
			expire="2060.1.1"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_smedley_butler"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=militarism
			traits={ dictator }
			expire="1940.6.21"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
}

1939.1.1 = {
	set_politics = {
		ruling_party = democratic
		last_election = "1936.11.3"
		election_frequency = 48
		elections_allowed = yes
	}
	oob = "USA_1939"
	set_naval_oob = "USA_1939_naval_legacy"

}

1940.1.1 = {
	oob = "USA_1940"
	set_naval_oob = "USA_1940_naval_legacy"
}

1941.1.1 = {
	oob = "USA_1941"
	set_naval_oob = "USA_1941_naval_legacy"

	set_politics = {
		ruling_party = democratic
		last_election = "1940.11.3"
		election_frequency = 48
		elections_allowed = yes
	}
}

1942.1.1 = {

	oob = "USA_1942"
	set_naval_oob = "USA_1942_naval_legacy"
}

1943.1.1 = {
	set_technology = {
		nuclear_reactor = 1
	}
	oob = "USA_1943"
}

1944.1.1 = {
	oob = "USA_1944"
}

1945.1.1 = {
	oob = "USA_1945"

	set_politics = {
		ruling_party = democratic
		last_election = "1944.11.3"
		election_frequency = 48
		elections_allowed = yes
	}

}

1949.1.1 = {
	oob = "USA_1949"
	set_naval_oob = "USA_1949_naval_legacy"
	set_politics = {
		ruling_party = democratic
		last_election = "1948.11.3"
		election_frequency = 48
		elections_allowed = yes
	}
	set_popularities = {
		democratic = 100
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_harry_s_truman"
		country_leader = {
			desc = "POLITICS_HARRY_TRUMAN_DESC"
			ideology=liberalism
			expire="1972.12.26"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_george_lincoln_rockwell"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=neo_nazism
			expire="1967.8.25"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_gus_hall_50s"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=marxism
			expire="2000.10.13"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_the_grand_council"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=despotism
			expire="2060.1.1"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_douglas_macarthur"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=militarism
			expire="1964.4.5"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
}

1960.1.1 = {
	add_ideas = {
		space_budget4
	}
	set_politics = {
		ruling_party = democratic
		last_election = "1956.11.3"
		election_frequency = 48
		elections_allowed = yes
	}
	set_popularities = {
		democratic = 100
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_dwight_d_eisenhower"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=conservatism
			expire="1969.3.28"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
}

1961.1.20 = {
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_john_f_kennedy"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=liberalism
			expire="1963.11.22"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
}

1963.11.22 = {
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_lyndon_b_johnson"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=liberalism
			expire="1973.1.22"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
}

1970.1.1 = {
	oob = "USA_1970"
	set_naval_oob = "USA_1970_naval_legacy"
	set_politics = {
		ruling_party = democratic
		last_election = "1968.11.3"
		election_frequency = 48
		elections_allowed = yes
	}
	set_popularities = {
		democratic = 100
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_richard_nixon"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=conservatism
			expire="1994.4.22"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_gus_hall_70s"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=marxism
			expire="2000.10.13"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_matthias_koehl"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=neo_nazism
			expire="2014.10.9"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_paul_washington"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=despotism
			expire="2002.10.7"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
}

1980.1.1 = {
	set_politics = {
		ruling_party = democratic
		last_election = "1976.11.3"
		election_frequency = 48
		elections_allowed = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_jimmy_carter"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=liberalism
			expire="2022.10.13"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
}

1990.1.1 = {
	set_politics = {
		ruling_party = democratic
		last_election = "1988.11.3"
		election_frequency = 48
		elections_allowed = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_george_h_w_bush"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=conservatism
			expire="2018.11.30"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
}

2000.1.1 = {
	oob = "USA_2000"
	set_naval_oob = "USA_2000_naval_legacy"
	set_politics = {
		ruling_party = democratic
		last_election = "1996.11.3"
		election_frequency = 48
		elections_allowed = yes
	}
	set_popularities = {
		democratic = 100
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_bill_clinton"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=liberalism
			expire="2060.1.1"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_jeff_schoep"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=neo_nazism
			expire="2060.1.1"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_patrich_buchanan"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=populism
			expire="2060.1.1"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_sam_webb"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=marxism
			expire="2060.1.1"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
}

2004.1.1 = {
	add_to_faction = LAT
	add_to_faction = LIT
	add_to_faction = EST
	add_to_faction = BUL
	add_to_faction = ROM
	add_to_faction = SLO
	add_to_faction = SLV
}

2009.1.1 = {
	add_to_faction = ALB
	add_to_faction = CRO
}
2008.1.1 = {
	set_politics = {
		ruling_party = democratic
		last_election = "2004.11.3"
		election_frequency = 48
		elections_allowed = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_george_w_bush"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=conservatism
			expire="2060.1.1"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
}
2016.1.1 = {
	oob = "USA_2016"
	set_politics = {
		ruling_party = democratic
		last_election = "2012.11.3"
		election_frequency = 48
		elections_allowed = yes
	}
	set_naval_oob = "USA_2016_naval_legacy"
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_barack_obama"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=liberalism
			expire="2060.1.1"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_richard_spencer"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=white_nationalism
			expire="2060.1.1"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_rocky_de_la_fuente"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=populism
			expire="2060.1.1"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_john_bachtell"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=marxism
			expire="2060.1.1"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
}

2020.1.1 = {
	set_politics = {
		ruling_party = democratic
		last_election = "2016.11.3"
		election_frequency = 48
		elections_allowed = yes
	}
	add_country_leader_role = {
		character = "USA_donald_trump"
		country_leader = {
			ideology=trumpism
			expire="2060.1.1"
		}
		promote_leader = yes
	}
}